README.md, before:

# Spanish Language Models 💃🏻

## Corpora 📃

| Corpora | Number of documents | Number of tokens | Size (GB) |
|---------|---------------------|------------------|-----------|
| BNE     |         201,080,084 |  135,733,450,668 |     570GB |

## Models 🤖
- RoBERTa-base BNE: https://huggingface.co/BSC-TeMU/roberta-base-bne
- RoBERTa-large BNE: https://huggingface.co/BSC-TeMU/roberta-large-bne 
- Other models: _(WIP)_

## Word embeddings 🔤
Word embeddings trained with FastText for 300d:
- CBOW Word embeddings: https://zenodo.org/record/5044988
- Skip-gram Word embeddings: https://zenodo.org/record/5046525

## Evaluation ✅
| Dataset     | Metric   | RoBERTa-b | RoBERTa-l | BETO   | mBERT  | BERTIN | ELECTRA |
|-------------|----------|-----------|-----------|--------|--------|--------|---------|
| UD-POS      | F1       | 0.9907    | 0.9901    | 0.9900 | 0.9886 | 0.9904 | 0.9818  |
| Conll-NER   | F1       | 0.8851    | 0.8772    | 0.8759 | 0.8691 | 0.8627 | 0.7954  |
| Capitel-POS | F1       | 0.9846    | 0.9851    | 0.9836 | 0.9839 | 0.9826 | 0.9816  |
| Capitel-NER | F1       | 0.8959    | 0.8998    | 0.8771 | 0.8810 | 0.8741 | 0.8035  |
| STS         | Combined | 0.8423    | 0.8420    | 0.8216 | 0.8249 | 0.7822 | 0.8065  |
| MLDoc       | Accuracy | 0.9595    | 0.9600    | 0.9650 | 0.9560 | 0.9673 | 0.9490  |
| PAWS-X      | F1       | 0.9035    | 0.9000    | 0.8915 | 0.9020 | 0.8820 | 0.9045  |
| XNLI        | Accuracy | 0.8016    | 0.7958    | 0.8130 | 0.7876 | 0.7864 | 0.7878  |

## Usage example ⚗️
For the RoBERTa-base
```python
from transformers import AutoModelForMaskedLM
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, FillMaskPipeline
from pprint import pprint
tokenizer_hf = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained('BSC-TeMU/roberta-base-bne')
model = AutoModelForMaskedLM.from_pretrained('BSC-TeMU/roberta-base-bne')
model.eval()
pipeline = FillMaskPipeline(model, tokenizer_hf)
text = f"¡Hola <mask>!"
res_hf = pipeline(text)
pprint([r['token_str'] for r in res_hf])
```

For the RoBERTa-large
```python
from transformers import AutoModelForMaskedLM
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, FillMaskPipeline
from pprint import pprint
tokenizer_hf = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained('BSC-TeMU/roberta-large-bne')
model = AutoModelForMaskedLM.from_pretrained('BSC-TeMU/roberta-large-bne')
model.eval()
pipeline = FillMaskPipeline(model, tokenizer_hf)
text = f"¡Hola <mask>!"
res_hf = pipeline(text)
pprint([r['token_str'] for r in res_hf])
```

## Other Spanish Language Models 👩‍👧‍👦
We are developing domain-specific language models:

- [Legal Language Model](https://github.com/PlanTL-SANIDAD/lm-legal-es)

## Cite 📣
```
@misc{gutierrezfandino2021spanish,
      title={Spanish Language Models}, 
      author={Asier Gutiérrez-Fandiño and Jordi Armengol-Estapé and Marc Pàmies and Joan Llop-Palao and Joaquín Silveira-Ocampo and Casimiro Pio Carrino and Aitor Gonzalez-Agirre and Carme Armentano-Oller and Carlos Rodriguez-Penagos and Marta Villegas},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2107.07253},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL}
}
```

## Contact 📧
📋 We are interested in (1) extending our corpora to make larger models (2) train/evaluate the model in other tasks.

For questions regarding this work, contact Asier Gutiérrez-Fandiño (asier.gutierrez@bsc.es)

Commit message:

Included models fine-tunned for POS

README.md, after:

# Spanish Language Models 💃🏻

## Corpora 📃

| Corpora | Number of documents | Number of tokens | Size (GB) |
|---------|---------------------|------------------|-----------|
| BNE     |         201,080,084 |  135,733,450,668 |     570GB |

## Models 🤖
- RoBERTa-base BNE: https://huggingface.co/BSC-TeMU/roberta-base-bne
- RoBERTa-large BNE: https://huggingface.co/BSC-TeMU/roberta-large-bne 
- Other models: _(WIP)_

## Fine-tunned models 🧗🏼‍♀️🏇🏼🤽🏼‍♀️🏌🏼‍♂️🏄🏼‍♀️

- RoBERTa-base-BNE for Capitel-POS: https://huggingface.co/BSC-TeMU/roberta-base-bne-capitel-pos
- RoBERTa-large-BNE for Capitel-POS: https://huggingface.co/BSC-TeMU/roberta-large-bne-capitel-pos


## Word embeddings 🔤
Word embeddings trained with FastText for 300d:
- CBOW Word embeddings: https://zenodo.org/record/5044988
- Skip-gram Word embeddings: https://zenodo.org/record/5046525

## Evaluation ✅
| Dataset     | Metric   | RoBERTa-b | RoBERTa-l | BETO   | mBERT  | BERTIN | ELECTRA |
|-------------|----------|-----------|-----------|--------|--------|--------|---------|
| UD-POS      | F1       | 0.9907    | 0.9901    | 0.9900 | 0.9886 | 0.9904 | 0.9818  |
| Conll-NER   | F1       | 0.8851    | 0.8772    | 0.8759 | 0.8691 | 0.8627 | 0.7954  |
| Capitel-POS | F1       | 0.9846    | 0.9851    | 0.9836 | 0.9839 | 0.9826 | 0.9816  |
| Capitel-NER | F1       | 0.8959    | 0.8998    | 0.8771 | 0.8810 | 0.8741 | 0.8035  |
| STS         | Combined | 0.8423    | 0.8420    | 0.8216 | 0.8249 | 0.7822 | 0.8065  |
| MLDoc       | Accuracy | 0.9595    | 0.9600    | 0.9650 | 0.9560 | 0.9673 | 0.9490  |
| PAWS-X      | F1       | 0.9035    | 0.9000    | 0.8915 | 0.9020 | 0.8820 | 0.9045  |
| XNLI        | Accuracy | 0.8016    | 0.7958    | 0.8130 | 0.7876 | 0.7864 | 0.7878  |

## Usage example ⚗️
For the RoBERTa-base
```python
from transformers import AutoModelForMaskedLM
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, FillMaskPipeline
from pprint import pprint
tokenizer_hf = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained('BSC-TeMU/roberta-base-bne')
model = AutoModelForMaskedLM.from_pretrained('BSC-TeMU/roberta-base-bne')
model.eval()
pipeline = FillMaskPipeline(model, tokenizer_hf)
text = f"¡Hola <mask>!"
res_hf = pipeline(text)
pprint([r['token_str'] for r in res_hf])
```

For the RoBERTa-large
```python
from transformers import AutoModelForMaskedLM
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, FillMaskPipeline
from pprint import pprint
tokenizer_hf = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained('BSC-TeMU/roberta-large-bne')
model = AutoModelForMaskedLM.from_pretrained('BSC-TeMU/roberta-large-bne')
model.eval()
pipeline = FillMaskPipeline(model, tokenizer_hf)
text = f"¡Hola <mask>!"
res_hf = pipeline(text)
pprint([r['token_str'] for r in res_hf])
```

## Other Spanish Language Models 👩‍👧‍👦
We are developing domain-specific language models:

- [Legal Language Model](https://github.com/PlanTL-SANIDAD/lm-legal-es)

## Cite 📣
```
@misc{gutierrezfandino2021spanish,
      title={Spanish Language Models}, 
      author={Asier Gutiérrez-Fandiño and Jordi Armengol-Estapé and Marc Pàmies and Joan Llop-Palao and Joaquín Silveira-Ocampo and Casimiro Pio Carrino and Aitor Gonzalez-Agirre and Carme Armentano-Oller and Carlos Rodriguez-Penagos and Marta Villegas},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2107.07253},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL}
}
```

## Contact 📧
📋 We are interested in (1) extending our corpora to make larger models (2) train/evaluate the model in other tasks.

For questions regarding this work, contact Asier Gutiérrez-Fandiño (asier.gutierrez@bsc.es)
